So I wanted to show you the slides
that I was working on now,
the actual R markdown files.
This is the dot r m d file.
And at first, I want to plot
the data that I'm going to look at.
This is the Galton parents' height and
childrens' height data.
So I am going to plot
it here using g g plot.
And there's my plot.
Now I'd like to go with
the information that is on the slide,
which is some R code.
So I thought it'd be probably
better to just show you,
show you the running of the R code rather
than showing you a slide with the,
the output of having run the R code.
So here I, for convenience,
I've defined my outcome as the child's
height's galton dollar sign child,
so let me define those.
And I've defined the.
X, the predictors, as the parent's height,
Galton dollar sign parent, and
this is just going to
save me on some typing.
Now first I'd like to indicate that
the solution that we specified is the same
solution that R will give you with
its built in regression function.
So here's beta one,
it's the correlation between y and x.
Times the standard deviation of y
divided by the standard deviation of x.
And here's my beta nought,
which is the mean of y,
minus the beta one that I just estimated,
times the mean of x.
So I can, for example,
look at these with beta zero and beta one.
In this c function for
just creating a vector.
Let me check that with the l m function.
I'm going to copy the function and
paste it down here and then I'll
go through each of the components.
L m in r stands for linear model.
Regression is a component
of linear models, and
so, this function is the general
function whether you want regression or
you want some of the more elaborate
versions of regression that we're going to
cover later on in the class.
So we want l m, the outcome y,
tilde, the predictor x.
And that does a linear regression.
By default it includes an intercept.
Coef takes the output of the linear
model and just grabs the coefficients.
And of course you see we get the same
numbers, 23.94 and 0.64, 0.65.
Very briefly now I just want to show
you that if I reverse the y and
x relationship the formula, of course
holds but now with standard deviation
of x in the numerator and standard
deviation of y in the denominator.
So I'm going to now define my
beta one as correlation of y and
x, but now with standard deviation
of x in the numerator and
standard deviation of
y in the denominator.
My intercept is now mean of x minus
beta one times the mean of y.
Now I'm simply going to concatenate
these slope and intercept estimates with
those that you get with l m where now x
is on the left hand side of the tilde and
y is on the right hand side of tilde,
reversed from what it was previously.
And there of course down here you see
that you get a, you get the same numbers.
So our formula is correct and
we know how to use it and
we know what happens when we
reverse the x y relationship.
Another point that was made
thus far in the lecture
was that regression through
the origin yielded the same slope
as linear regression with a not
necessarily zero intercept.
If you mean centered the y's and
mean centered the x's first.
So let's just check that computationally.
My centered y is just going
to be y minus the mean of y.
My centered x is just going
to be x minus the mean of x.
And recall that the regression
to the origin equation for
the slope was just the sum of the y
variable times the x variable, divided
by the sum of the x variable squared.
So, let's run that and
get our coefficient that is estimated
through a regression to the origin.
And then now what I'm going to do.
Is I'm going to take this beta one
that I got through my equation of,
for regression to the origin.
Where I've mean-centered my data first.
And then I'm going to compare it
to the linear regression estimate,
using l m with y tilde x,
meaning y is my outcome, x is my response.
And l m automatically
puts in an intercept.
And I am going to grab the second
coefficient, which is the slope.
When I do that,
if you look down here you see of
course that you get the same numbers.
I want to very briefly also just show you
how you can actually do
regression to the origin.
Using l m how you get
rid of the intercept.
So in this case I'll get the same
number if I take the centered y and
use the centered x as a predictor.
But I want to subtract out the intercept,
so
you put a minus one to
get rid of the intercept.
And you'll see here point
six four six three.
You get the same slope estimate.
Another point that was
made in the lecture,
was that if we were to
normalize the y's or the x's so
that they have standard deviation one,
the slope would be the correlation.
So let's just double check
that really quickly.
Here, I'm, I'm normalizing my child's
heights by subtracting off the mean and
dividing by the standard deviation.
Let me just juggle, double check that
these now have standard deviation one.
There you go.
And I'm going to do the same thing for
my x variables now.
So now both my y and my x variable,
the y n and x n variables.
Can be interpreted as standard deviations
from the mean for the, in the y's case for
the child's heights and
in the x's case for the parent's heights.
So we've gotten rid of the,
the original units, the inches.
And now they're in standard
deviations from the mean.
Now I simply want to show with
this concatenation operator here.
That the correlation between
the original y and the original x,
is the same as the correlation when I
normalize the y and I normalize the x.
And its the same as the coefficient for
the linear regression when I
fit the normalized y as the outcome and
the normalized x as the predictor.
And when I run it, if you go down here.
Of course you see that all
three numbers are the same.
The last thing I'd like to
do is simply show how to
add a regression line to
a g g two scatter plot.
Here over on the right I am showing the
somewhat fancy plot I've been given for
this data.
Where the sizes of the circles
are the number of parents and childs.
At that specific x y location.
And the color of the circle is also
representative of the frequency.
I've defined over here my aesthetics,
so that x is parent and y is child.
And if you want to add a linear
regression line to this point,
you simply take your plot.
Which I've assigned to the variable g.
And you want to add
geom underscore smooth.
You want to use the method as l m.
And you want to give it the formula,
y tilde x.
If you omit the formula, it's going
to assume that formula is y tilde x.
So let's add that layer to our g
g plot and then let's re-plot it.
And there you see the regression line
overlaid on top of my scatter plot.
I would also note that g g plot two does
a very good thing for us on our behalf.
Is they automatically give us
a confidence interval around the line.
We'll talk about how to generate
this confidence interval later on
in the lecture.
But it's very nice that they're thinking
of statistical uncertainty automatically.